---
title: Accessible Buttons
date: "2019-02-21T10:15:00.121Z"
id: 5
---

<style>
html, body {
	font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
main {
	padding: 1em;
}
.icon {
	display: block;
	width: 3em;
	height:2.6em;
	fill: currentColor;
}
.icon-help {
	background: url(https://jsbin-user-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/marcysutton/question.svg) no-repeat center center;
	background-size: contain;
}
button, .button {
	background-color: buttonface;
    border: 2px outset buttonface;
    box-sizing: border-box;
	display: inline-block;
	font-weight: bold;
	font-size: 24px;
	height: 3em;
	line-height: 3em;
    padding: 3px 6px 6px;
	vertical-align: middle;
	-webkit-appearance: button;
}
.sr-only { 
	border: 0;
	clip: rect(0 0 0 0);
	height: 1px;
	margin: -1px;
	overflow: hidden;
	padding: 0;
	position: absolute;
	width: 1px;
}
.language-text {
    color: white;
    background-color: #1E1E1E;
    padding: 1em;
    width: 100%;
    border-radius: 5px;
}

</style>

A common problem on the web today is the inaccessible icon button. By following a few best practices, we can make sure that our icon buttons are accessible to the broadest possible audience.

The most common and straightforward methods to meet the WCAG 2.0/2.1 Guidelines are as follows:

## Accessible Buttons

### A Basic HTML5 Button

*Example:*

<button>Help!</button>

```
<button>Help!</button>
```

The basic HTML5 button the most straightforward and usable button. No icon is used, therefore the understanding of the buttons function is easily understood by users of our site. Unless there is a strong reason to use an icon in lieu of text, this is the best practice.

The native HTML5 button receives keyboard focus without any need for use of the **tab-index** attribute.

### An HTML5 Icon Button with a visually hidden span

*Example:*
<p><button>
    <span class="sr-only">Help!</span>
    <i class="icon icon-help" aria-hidden="true"></i>
</button></p>

```
<button>
    <span class="sr-only">Help!</span>
    <i class="icon icon-help" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </button>
```
This button will be presented to a screen reader user in the exact same way as the Basic HTML5 button.

The **sr-only** class visually hides the text from sighted users, but will be read aloud to screen reader users.

The **aria-hidden="true"** attribute will hide any artifacts generated by the *"icon-help"* that could be confusing and/or not helpful to screen reader users.  

### An HTML5 Icon Button using an aria-label

*Example:*
<p><button aria-label="Help!">
    <i class="icon icon-help" aria-hidden="true"></i>
</button></p>

```    
<button aria-label="Help!">
    <i class="icon icon-help" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </button>
```

Use of an **aria-label** will override the contents of the container that the **aria-label** is placed on. The **aria-label should not be used like a title attribute** or as supplementary information. 

## Conclusion

The best approach to user-friendly and accessible buttons is to use the HTML5 native button element. If icons are necessary for aesthetic appeal, the use of **sr-only** text or **aria-label** attributes can mimic the behavior of a native button element. By using these methods, screen reader users to interact with buttons properly.